+++
title = "21 Lessons"
description = "Bitcoin as more than just money—a deep dive into economics, philosophy, and culture. Like Alice in Wonderland, exploring Bitcoin is full of surprises."
draft = false
authors = [ "Gigi" ]
[taxonomies]
tags = [ "bitcoin", "economics", "philosophy" ]
[extra]
subtitle = "What I've Learned from Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole"
pages = "150"
author = "Gigi"
static_thumbnail = "https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1578632548i/50376693.jpg"
expand_preview = true
+++

Gigi portrays Bitcoin as more than just money; it's a deep dive into economics, philosophy, and culture. Like Alice in Wonderland, exploring Bitcoin is full of surprises, teaching about money, inflation, and the idea of decentralization. It redefines what 'good money' is, shows its cultural impact, and stresses that learning about Bitcoin is a personal journey that keeps evolving.

<!-- more -->

## Key takeaways

### Philosophical and Conceptual Insights

Bitcoin teaches more than traditional education, offering insights into economics and philosophy.
Engaging with Bitcoin feels like falling down a rabbit hole, full of learning and surprises.

### Economic and Monetary Lessons

Bitcoin brings back the idea of 'sound money', teaching about inflation and banking systems.
Issuing new money reduces the value of existing money, unlike Bitcoin which has a fixed supply.

### Technical and Cultural Aspects
Bitcoin's core ideas include scarcity, security, and consensus, but the book isn't a technical manual.
Bitcoin reflects a shift towards decentralization, influenced by movements like cypherpunk.

### Personal and Educational Journey
Each person might learn different lessons from Bitcoin, encouraging personal exploration.
Bitcoin's lessons evolve, requiring ongoing study.

---

"21 Lessons" focuses on why Bitcoin matters philosophically, economically, and culturally, rather than how to use it.

> You can buy the book or read it for free on their own website: [https://21lessons.com/preface](https://21lessons.com/preface)

{{ youtube(id="-5lU92SEplU") }}
