+++
title = "Prologue"
slug = "prologue"
weight = 2
date = 2015-02-01
[taxonomies]
tags = []
+++

## By the Author

This book is a compilation of some brief, personal reflections that I share with myself, and that have been compiled
from the beginning of what could be said as a fearless journey. A new life in a different country, Germany. Without any
knowledge of German, and with a really poor English level. Fortunately, things have changed a lot since then.

This book was born by itself. It is not a diary or a manual, it is a compilation, where we will experience together with
the mind of someone who would not settle but fight to improve himself.

The order of the reflections is by the written date; therefore, we can see their evolution, as of their prose and the
different expressions. Addressing different and broad subjects, it is a book with personal ideas that others who don’t
know the author (who writes through these sentences) have no reason to feel identified with.

All this journey has not been made for the reader to like it, more so for the author. Feel, therefore, invited to just
know me better.

## By Jesús Valera Reales

The book you have in your hands is the work of more than two years of one of the most skilled persons that I have ever
met: my brother, José María. The real reason to write this prologue is none other than to put the reader in a situation
in which, while reading the book they can understand the context of certain chapters.

In the year 2004 and at the age of 37, our mother passed away. She had a stroke, and left my father responsible for
raising eight children by himself – the oldest was 13, José María was 11, and the youngest was just 19 days old. We all
had to change schools and redo our lives.

Three years later, he married another woman, who made our lives a living hell, and after many discussions with our older
sister, who had by then taken up the responsibility of being "the woman of the house". She sent her to finish her
university-level studies in another city, which she perfectly could have done so in ours. By order of age, her next
“target” was José María.

With our father overwhelmed by what was happening, the encounters between him and us got bigger and bigger until we
ended up relegated – all seven of us – to the garage in the duplex in which we “lived”, as the backyard of a castle.
Additionally, we were completely forbidden to go upstairs where the main rooms were (kitchen, living room, bathrooms,
and bedrooms) unless it was time to eat or go to sleep, with all the “human necessities” that implies.

The disagreements with her continued to grow as time passed, until the point where my father was forced to decide
between returning to the flat where we grew up with our mother, Home.

The repercussions were so severe on José María that not too long after we returned home, he tried to end his life
unsuccessfully at a mountain. That was an inflection point of which he moved on to be our older brother even more. We
couldn’t learn much from our mother but as siblings, we always used to stick with each other, and with him leading by
example, to support one another and overcome difficulties together, I owe him a lot.

## By Francisco Javier

It was at the beginning of 2016 when I heard of the idea of publishing this book and when I felt that I “have to” make
my contribution so this idea could become a reality. Throughout this time, I have tried to contribute everything I can
by offering suggestions and corrections at every possible level.

There have been many hours of searching, reflecting, and talking (with laughter now and then) trying to help the author
to express his ideas in a better way. And all of this under the selflessness behind these 16 years of friendship.

I want to compliment the previous prologue with a question as simple as it was shocking that José María asked me one
morning at the high school, a few days after they returned to the place where the eight siblings had grown up, “Do you
know how it feels like to wake up on a weekend morning, to see it's raining and to just stay in bed?” It was shocking
because usually, he had to go out anyway...
